Blog Post: Long-Term Support For Calvin Kim (#880)
OpenSats/website: data/blog/calvin-kim-receives-lts-grant.mdx

transaction without trusting a third party. [Bitcoin Core] is the dominant node
software today, but having more than one viable option is healthy for the
overall decentralized network.

Calvin is among the leading contributors to [btcd], an alternative node software
written in the [Go] programming language. Parts of btcd are reused by other
Bitcoin software, including the [lnd] Lightning implementation, which is built
with btcd's code libraries. People who use that software are relying on Calvin's
work, often without knowing it.

His work on btcd has been the unglamorous kind that keeps software dependable.
He made btcd lighter to run and faster to start up, adding the ability to [run a
node on smaller hard drives], and bringing its [startup sync] in line with
modern, faster methods. He also [sped up how the software checks new blocks] and
fixed a long list of bugs along the way.

Beyond btcd, Calvin is working on a newer approach for reducing how much data a
node has to store. He is the lead developer of [utreexod], a node software built
around a cryptographic accumulator called [Utreexo]. A node has to store a

> record of every [unspent coin] in existence so it can tell real coins from fake

Reviewer: Not sure if I'd word it like that ("tell real coins from fake ones").

You have to keep track of everything otherwise the detection of double-spends would be impossible. You can't prove non-existence, so you have to build a world that keeps everything that ever existed.

NIT for sure, but I wouldn't be me if I'd just shut up and not point it out 😅

Author: Will redo now 🙏

> ones, and that record keeps growing. Utreexo shrinks that record dramatically by

Author: ```suggestion
around a cryptographic accumulator called [Utreexo]. A node has to maintain a record of every [unspent coin] in existence so it can tell valid spends from invalid or double-spent ones, and that record tends to grow over time. Utreexo shrinks that record dramatically by
```

replacing it with a compact cryptographic summary, small enough to verify the
whole chain on something as modest as [a cheap, low-power computer]. This lowers
the cost and effort of verifying Bitcoin for yourself, keeping barriers low for
people who want to run their own node. Calvin wrote the technical specifications
([BIPs 181, 182, and 183]) that define how it works so that other developers can
build compatible software.

With this grant, Calvin will continue his work across btcd and utreexod,
including:

> - Maintaining btcd and bringing new features, such as faster block download.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Maintaining btcd and implementing new features, such as faster block download.
```
